---
title: "Commission Regulation (EC) No 1501/2007 of 18 December 2007 concerning the authorisation of a new use of endo-1,4-beta-xylanase EC 3.2.1.8 (Safizym X) as a feed additive (Text with EEA relevance)"
identifier: "32007R1501"
country: "eu"
rank: "regulation"
publication_date: "2007-12-18"
last_updated: "2026-04-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2007/1501/oj"
department: "European Commission"
eli: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2007/1501/oj"
entry_into_force: "2007-12-20"
celex: "32007R1501"
regulation_type: "REG"
---
# Commission Regulation (EC) No 1501/2007 of 18 December 2007 concerning the authorisation of a new use of endo-1,4-beta-xylanase EC 3.2.1.8 (Safizym X) as a feed additive (Text with EEA relevance)

# COMMISSION REGULATION (EC) No 1501/2007 of 18 December 2007 concerning the authorisation of a new use of endo-1,4-beta-xylanase EC 3.2.1.8 (Safizym X) as a feed additive (Text with EEA relevance)

THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES,

Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community,

Having regard to Regulation (EC) No 1831/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2003 on additives for use in animal nutrition (1), and in particular Article 9(2) thereof,

Whereas:

(1) Regulation (EC) No 1831/2003 provides for the authorisation of additives for use in animal nutrition and for the grounds and procedures for granting such authorisation.

(2) In accordance with Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1831/2003, an application was submitted for the authorisation of the preparation set out in the Annex to this Regulation. That application was accompanied by the particulars and documents required under Article 7(3) of Regulation (EC) No 1831/2003.

(3) The application concerns a new use of the preparation of endo-1,4-beta-xylanase EC 3.2.1.8 produced by Trichoderma longibrachiatum (CNCM MA 6-10) (Safizym X), as a feed additive for ducks, to be classified in the additive category ‘zootechnical additives’.

(4) The use of the preparation of endo-1,4-beta-xylanase EC 3.2.1.8 produced by Trichoderma longibrachiatum (CNCM MA 6-10) was authorised without a time limit for chickens for fattening by Commission Regulation (EC) No 1453/2004 (2), without a time limit for turkeys for fattening by Commission Regulation (EC) No 943/2005 (3), without a time limit for laying hens by Commission Regulation (EC) No 1810/2005 (4) and for ten years for piglets (weaned) by Commission Regulation (EC) No 497/2007 (5).

(5) New data were submitted in support of an application for authorisation for ducks. The European Food Safety Authority (the Authority) concluded in its opinion of 10 July 2007 that the preparation of endo-1,4-beta-xylanase EC 3.2.1.8 produced by Trichoderma longibrachiatum (CNCM MA 6-10) (Safizym X) does not have an adverse effect on animal health, human health or the environment (6). It further concluded that that preparation does not present any other risk which would, in accordance with Article 5(2) of Regulation (EC) No 1831/2003, exclude authorisation for this additional animal category. According to that opinion, the use of that preparation is efficacious in digestibility of feedingstuffs. The Authority does not consider that there is a need for specific requirements of post market monitoring. It also verified the report on the method of analysis of the feed additive in feed submitted by the Community Reference Laboratory set up by Regulation (EC) No 1831/2003.

(6) The assessment of that preparation shows that the conditions for authorisation, provided for in Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 1831/2003, are satisfied. Accordingly, the use of that preparation should be authorised, as specified in the Annex to this Regulation.

(7) The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health,

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:

#### Article 1

The preparation specified in the Annex, belonging to the additive category ‘zootechnical additives’ and to the functional group ‘digestibility enhancers’, is authorised as an additive in animal nutrition subject to the conditions laid down in that Annex.

#### Article 2

This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.

Done at Brussels, 18 December 2007.

**For the Commission
 Markos KYPRIANOU
 Member of the Commission**

(1) [OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2003_268_R_TOC). Regulation as amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 378/2005 ([OJ L 59, 5.3.2005, p. 8](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2005_059_R_TOC)).

(2) [OJ L 269, 17.8.2004, p. 3](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2004_269_R_TOC).

(3) [OJ L 159, 22.6.2005, p. 6](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2005_159_R_TOC).

(4) [OJ L 291, 5.11.2005, p. 5](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2005_291_R_TOC). Regulation as amended by Regulation (EC) No 184/2007 ([OJ L 63, 1.3.2007, p. 1](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2007_063_R_TOC)).

(5) [OJ L 117, 5.5.2007, p. 11](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2007_117_R_TOC).

(6) Opinion of the Scientific Panel on Additives and Products or Substances used in Animal Feed on the safety and efficacy of the enzyme preparation Safizym X (endo-1,4-beta-xylanase) as feed additive for ducks in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1831/2003. Adopted on 10 July 2007
 The EFSA Journal (2007) 520, 1-8.
