---
title: "Commission Regulation (EC) No 948/2009 of 30 September 2009 amending Annex I to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff"
identifier: "32009R0948"
country: "eu"
rank: "regulation"
publication_date: "2009-09-30"
last_updated: "2026-04-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2009/948/oj"
department: "European Commission"
eli: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2009/948/oj"
entry_into_force: "2010-01-01"
celex: "32009R0948"
regulation_type: "REG"
---
# Commission Regulation (EC) No 948/2009 of 30 September 2009 amending Annex I to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff

# COMMISSION REGULATION (EC) No 948/2009 of 30 September 2009 amending Annex I to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff

THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES,

Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community,

Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 of 23 July 1987 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff (1), and in particular Articles 9 and 12 thereof,

Whereas:

(1) Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 established a goods nomenclature, hereinafter referred to as the ‘Combined Nomenclature’, to meet, at one and the same time, the requirements of the Common Customs Tariff, the external trade statistics of the Community, and other Community policies concerning the importation or exportation of goods.

(2) In the interests of legislative simplification, it is appropriate to modernise the Combined Nomenclature and to adapt its structure.

(3) It is necessary to amend the Combined Nomenclature, in order to take account of the following: changes in requirements relating to statistics and to commercial policy, changes made in order to fulfil international commitments, technological and commercial developments, and the need to align or clarify texts.

(4) In accordance with Article 12 of Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87, Annex I to that Regulation should be replaced, with effect from 1 January 2010, by a complete version of the Combined Nomenclature, together with the autonomous and conventional rates of duty resulting from measures adopted by the Council or by the Commission.

(5) The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Customs Code Committee,

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:

#### Article 1

Annex I to Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation.

#### Article 2

This Regulation shall enter into force on the 1 January 2010.

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.

Done at Brussels, 30 September 2009.

**For the Commission
 László KOVÁCS
 Member of the Commission**

(1) [OJ L 256, 7.9.1987, p. 1](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_1987_256_R_TOC).
