---
title: "Commission Regulation (EC) No 957/2006 of  28 June 2006  concerning the classification of certain goods in the Combined Nomenclature and amending Regulation (EEC) No 48/90"
identifier: "32006R0957"
country: "eu"
rank: "regulation"
publication_date: "2006-06-28"
last_updated: "2026-04-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2006/957/oj"
department: "European Commission"
eli: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2006/957/oj"
entry_into_force: "2006-07-19"
celex: "32006R0957"
regulation_type: "REG"
---
# Commission Regulation (EC) No 957/2006 of  28 June 2006  concerning the classification of certain goods in the Combined Nomenclature and amending Regulation (EEC) No 48/90

# COMMISSION REGULATION (EC) No 957/2006 of 28 June 2006 concerning the classification of certain goods in the Combined Nomenclature and amending Regulation (EEC) No 48/90

THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES,

Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community,

Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 of 23 July 1987 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff (1), and in particular Article 9(1)(a) thereof,

Whereas:

(1) In order to ensure uniform application of the Combined Nomenclature annexed to Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87, it is necessary to adopt measures concerning the classification of the goods referred to in the Annex to this Regulation.

(2) Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 has laid down the general rules for the interpretation of the Combined Nomenclature. Those rules apply also to any other nomenclature which is wholly or partly based on it or which adds any additional subdivision to it and which is established by specific Community provisions, with a view to the application of tariff and other measures relating to trade in goods.

(3) Pursuant to those general rules, the goods described in column 1 of the table set out in the Annex to this Regulation should be classified under the CN codes indicated in column 2, by virtue of the reasons set out in column 3 of that table.

(4) It is appropriate to provide that binding tariff information which has been issued by the customs authorities of Member States in respect of the classification of goods in the Combined Nomenclature but which is not in accordance with this Regulation can, for a period of three months, continue to be invoked by the holder, under Article 12(6) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92 of 12 October 1992 establishing the Community Customs Code (2).

(5) The classification of ‘dot-matrix displays’ in Commission Regulation (EEC) No 48/90 of 9 January 1990 concerning the classification of certain goods in the Combined Nomenclature (3) has led to incorrect classifications and therefore point 2 of the Annex to that Regulation should be deleted.

(6) The Customs Code Committee has not delivered an opinion within the time-limit set by its chairman as regards product No 3 in the annexed table.

(7) The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Customs Code Committee as regards products Nos 1 and 2 in the annexed table,

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:

#### Article 1

The goods described in column 1 of the table set out in the Annex shall be classified within the Combined Nomenclature under the CN codes indicated in column 2 of that table.

#### Article 2

Binding tariff information issued by the customs authorities of Member States, which is not in accordance with this Regulation, can continue to be invoked for a period of three months under Article 12(6) of Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92.

#### Article 3

Point 2 of the Annex to Regulation (EEC) No 48/90 is deleted.

#### Article 4

This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.

Done at Brussels, 28 June 2006.

**For the Commission
 László KOVÁCS
 Member of the Commission**

(1) [OJ L 256, 7.9.1987, p. 1](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_1987_256_R_TOC). Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 838/2006 ([OJ L 154, 8.6.2006, p. 1](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2006_154_R_TOC)).

(2) [OJ L 302, 19.10.1992, p. 1](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_1992_302_R_TOC). Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 648/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council ([OJ L 117, 4.5.2005, p. 13](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2005_117_R_TOC)).

(3) [OJ L 8, 11.1.1990, p. 16](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_1990_008_R_TOC). Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 705/2005 ([OJ L 118, 5.5.2005, p. 18](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2005_118_R_TOC).
