---
title: "Commission Regulation (EC) No 690/2007 of 19 June 2007 amending Council Regulation (EC) No 1412/2006 concerning certain restrictive measures in respect of Lebanon"
identifier: "32007R0690"
country: "eu"
rank: "regulation"
publication_date: "2007-06-19"
last_updated: "2026-04-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2007/690/oj"
department: "European Commission"
eli: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2007/690/oj"
entry_into_force: "2007-01-01"
celex: "32007R0690"
regulation_type: "REG"
---
# Commission Regulation (EC) No 690/2007 of 19 June 2007 amending Council Regulation (EC) No 1412/2006 concerning certain restrictive measures in respect of Lebanon

# COMMISSION REGULATION (EC) No 690/2007 of 19 June 2007 amending Council Regulation (EC) No 1412/2006 concerning certain restrictive measures in respect of Lebanon

THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES,

Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community,

Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 1412/2006 of 25 September 2006 concerning certain restrictive measures in respect of Lebanon (1), and in particular Article 5 thereof,

Whereas:

(1) The Annex to Regulation (EC) No 1412/2006 lists the competent authorities to which specific functions related to the implementation of that Regulation are attributed.

(2) Council Regulation (EC) No 1791/2006 (2) has made adaptations to several acts adopted by the institutions required by reason of the accession of Bulgaria and Romania. The Annex to Regulation (EC) No 1412/2006 was, however, not amended on that occasion.

(3) Bulgaria and Romania provided information on their competent authorities. These authorities should therefore be included in the Annex to Regulation (EC) No 1412/2006 from the date on which Bulgaria and Romania acceded to the European Community,

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:

#### Article 1

The Annex to Regulation (EC) No 1412/2006 is hereby amended as set out in the Annex to this Regulation.

#### Article 2

This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.

It shall apply from 1 January 2007.

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.

Done at Brussels, 19 June 2007.

**For the Commission
 Eneko LANDÁBURU
 Director-General for External Relations**

(1) [OJ L 267, 27.9.2006, p. 2](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2006_267_R_TOC).

(2) [OJ L 363, 20.12.2006, p. 1](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2006_363_R_TOC).
