---
title: "Commission Regulation (EC) No 384/2005 of 7 March 2005 adopting the programme of ad hoc modules, covering the years 2007 to 2009, for the labour force sample survey provided for by Council Regulation (EC) No 577/98Text with EEA relevance"
identifier: "32005R0384"
country: "eu"
rank: "regulation"
publication_date: "2005-03-07"
last_updated: "2006-03-04"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2005/384/oj"
department: "European Commission"
eli: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2005/384/oj"
entry_into_force: "2005-03-28"
celex: "32005R0384"
regulation_type: "REG"
---
# Commission Regulation (EC) No 384/2005 of 7 March 2005 adopting the programme of ad hoc modules, covering the years 2007 to 2009, for the labour force sample survey provided for by Council Regulation (EC) No 577/98Text with EEA relevance

# COMMISSION REGULATION (EC) No 384/2005 of 7 March 2005 adopting the programme of ad hoc modules, covering the years 2007 to 2009, for the labour force sample survey provided for by Council Regulation (EC) No 577/98 (Text with EEA relevance)

#### Article 1

The programme of ad hoc modules for the labour force sample survey, covering the years 2007 to 2009, as set out in the Annex, is hereby adopted.

#### Article 2

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following its publication in the *Official Journal of the European Union*.

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.

## ANNEX

### LABOUR FORCE SURVEY

### Multi-annual programme of ad hoc modules

#### 1. **ACCIDENTS AT WORK AND WORK-RELATED HEALTH PROBLEMS**

*List of variables* : to be defined before December 2005.

*Reference period* : 2007.

*Member States and regions concerned* : All.

*Sample* : the target age group for the sample for this module consists of persons aged 15 or more.

*Transmission of the results* : before 31 March 2008.

#### 2. **LABOUR MARKET SITUATION OF MIGRANTS AND THEIR IMMEDIATE DESCENDANTS**

Implementation of the 2008 module will be conditional upon the results of feasibility studies to be finished before the end of 2005.

*List of variables* : to be defined before December 2006.

*Reference period* : 2008.

*Member States and regions concerned* : All.

*Sample* : to be defined before December 2006.

*Transmission of the results* : before 31 March 2009.

#### 3. **ENTRY OF YOUNG PEOPLE INTO THE LABOUR MARKET**

*List of variables* : to be defined before December 2007.

*Reference period* : 2009.

*Member States and regions concerned* : All.

*Sample* : to be defined before December 2007.

*Transmission of the results* : before 31 March 2010.
