---
title: "Commission Regulation (EU) No 379/2014 of 7 April 2014 amending Commission Regulation (EU) No 965/2012 laying down technical requirements and administrative procedures related to air operations pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council"
identifier: "32014R0379"
country: "eu"
rank: "regulation"
publication_date: "2014-04-07"
last_updated: "2026-04-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2014/379/oj"
department: "European Commission"
eli: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2014/379/oj"
entry_into_force: "2014-04-27"
celex: "32014R0379"
regulation_type: "REG"
---
# Commission Regulation (EU) No 379/2014 of 7 April 2014 amending Commission Regulation (EU) No 965/2012 laying down technical requirements and administrative procedures related to air operations pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council

# COMMISSION REGULATION (EU) No 379/2014 of 7 April 2014 amending Commission Regulation (EU) No 965/2012 laying down technical requirements and administrative procedures related to air operations pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,

Having regard to Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 February 2008 on common rules in the field of civil aviation and establishing a European Aviation Safety Agency, and repealing Council Directive 91/670/EEC, Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 and Directive 2004/36/EC (1), and in particular Article 8(5) thereof,

Whereas:

(1) Operators and personnel involved in the operation of certain aircraft have to comply with the relevant essential requirements set out in Annex IV to Regulation (EC) No 216/2008.

(2) In accordance with Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 the Commission should adopt the necessary implementing rules for establishing the conditions for the safe operation of aircraft. Those rules should primarily take into account the complexity of aircraft, organisations and aircraft operations, as well as the risks associated with the different types of operations.

(3) Commission Regulation (EU) No 965/2012 (2) establishes implementing rules for commercial air transport operations with aeroplanes and helicopters. Rules for commercial air transport operations with balloons and sailplanes should also be provided in order to comply with the basic principles and applicability of Regulation (EC) No 216/2008. In addition, the specificities of certain commercial operations with aeroplanes and helicopters, starting and ending at the same aerodrome or operating site, need to be appropriately addressed according to their scale and scope and the risk involved.

(4) Commission Regulation (EU) No 800/2013 (3) amends Regulation (EU) No 965/2012 to include rules for non-commercial operations according to the complexity of aircraft. It is also necessary to amend Regulation (EU) No 965/2012 in order to reflect the current state of the art and to ensure proportionate measures for certain strictly defined activities with other-than-complex aircraft and the organizations involved.

(5) Rules for specialised operations with aeroplanes, helicopters balloons and sailplanes should also be included taking into account the particular aspects of such operations and the risk involved. For reasons of proportionality it would not be appropriate to subject all commercial operators to certification, in particular commercial specialised operators. Although of commercial nature, these operators would be subject to a declaration of capability instead of a certificate. Nevertheless, conditions for certain high risk commercial specialised operations, which endanger third parties on the ground, should be specified in the interest of safety and therefore those operations should be submitted to authorisation.

(6) Regulation (EU) No 965/2012 should therefore be amended accordingly.

(7) In order to ensure a smooth transition and a high level of civil aviation safety in the Union, the implementing measures should reflect the state of the art, including best practices, and scientific and technical progress in the field of air operations. Accordingly, technical requirements and administrative procedures agreed under the auspices of the International Civil Aviation Organisation and the European Joint Aviation Authorities until 30 June 2009, as well as existing legislation pertaining to a specific national environment, should be considered.

(8) It is necessary to provide sufficient time for the aeronautical industry and Member States’ administrations to adapt to the new regulatory framework.

(9) The European Aviation Safety Agency prepared draft implementing rules and submitted them as an Opinion to the Commission in accordance with Article 19(1) of Regulation (EC) No 216/2008.

(10) The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 65 of Regulation (EC) No 216/2008,

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:

#### Article 1

Regulation (EU) No 965/2012 is amended as follows:

(1) Article 1 is replaced by the following:
   ‘Article 1
   Subject matter and scope

(8) Annexes I to VII to Regulation (EU) No 965/2012 are amended as set out in Annex I to this Regulation;

(9) an Annex VIII (Part-SPO) is added to Regulation (EU) No 965/2012, as set out in Annex II to this Regulation.

#### Article 2

This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.

It shall apply from 1 July 2014.

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.

Done at Brussels, 7 April 2014.

**For the Commission
 The President
 José Manuel BARROSO**

(1) [OJ L 79, 19.3.2008, p. 1](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2008_079_R_TOC).

(2) Commission Regulation (EU) No 965/2012 of 5 October 2012 laying down technical requirements and administrative procedures related to air operations pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council ([OJ L 296, 25.10.2012, p. 1](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2012_296_R_TOC)).

(3) Commission Regulation (EU) No 800/2013 of 14 August 2013 amending Regulation (EU) No 965/2012 laying down technical requirements and administrative procedures related to air operations pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council ([OJ L 227, 24.8.2013, p. 1](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2013_227_R_TOC)).
