---
title: "Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1172/2013 of 18 November 2013 approving a minor amendment to the specification for a name entered in the register of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications [Kiwi de l’Adour (PGI)]"
identifier: "32013R1172"
country: "eu"
rank: "implementing_regulation"
publication_date: "2013-11-18"
last_updated: "2026-04-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2013/1172/oj"
department: "European Commission"
eli: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2013/1172/oj"
entry_into_force: "2013-12-10"
celex: "32013R1172"
regulation_type: "REG_IMPL"
---
# Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1172/2013 of 18 November 2013 approving a minor amendment to the specification for a name entered in the register of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications [Kiwi de l’Adour (PGI)]

# COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) No 1172/2013 of 18 November 2013 approving a minor amendment to the specification for a name entered in the register of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications [Kiwi de l’Adour (PGI)]

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,

Having regard to Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on quality schemes for agricultural products and foodstuffs (1), and in particular the second subparagraph of Article 53(2) thereof,

Whereas:

(1) Pursuant to the first subparagraph of Article 53(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012, the Commission has examined France’s application for the approval of an amendment to the specification for the protected geographical indication ‘Kiwi de l’Adour’ registered under Commission Regulation (EC) No 419/2009 (2).

(2) The purpose of the application is to amend the specification by clarifying how the young plants are fertilised. This amendment has not caused the published summary to be amended (3).

(3) The Commission has examined the amendment in question and decided that it is justified. Since the amendment is minor within the meaning of the third subparagraph of Article 53(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012, the Commission may approve it without following the procedure set out in Articles 50 to 52 of that Regulation,

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:

#### Article 1

The specification for the protected geographical indication ‘Kiwi de l’Adour’ is hereby amended in accordance with the Annex to this Regulation.

#### Article 2

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.

Done at Brussels, 18 November 2013.

**For the Commission, On behalf of the President,
 Dacian CIOLOȘ
 Member of the Commission**

(1) [OJ L 343, 14.12.2012, p. 1](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2012_343_R_TOC).

(2) [OJ L 125, 21.5.2009, p. 60](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2009_125_R_TOC).

(3) [OJ C 263, 16.10.2008, p. 5](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOC_2008_263_R_TOC).
