---
title: "Commission Regulation (EU) 2017/294 of 20 February 2017 amending Regulation (EC) No 748/2009 on the list of aircraft operators which performed an aviation activity listed in Annex I to Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on or after 1 January 2006 specifying the administering Member State for each aircraft operator (Text with EEA relevance. )"
identifier: "32017R0294"
country: "eu"
rank: "regulation"
publication_date: "2017-02-20"
last_updated: "2026-04-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2017/294/oj"
department: "European Commission"
eli: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2017/294/oj"
entry_into_force: "2017-02-24"
celex: "32017R0294"
regulation_type: "REG"
---
# Commission Regulation (EU) 2017/294 of 20 February 2017 amending Regulation (EC) No 748/2009 on the list of aircraft operators which performed an aviation activity listed in Annex I to Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on or after 1 January 2006 specifying the administering Member State for each aircraft operator (Text with EEA relevance. )

# COMMISSION REGULATION (EU) 2017/294 of 20 February 2017 amending Regulation (EC) No 748/2009 on the list of aircraft operators which performed an aviation activity listed in Annex I to Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on or after 1 January 2006 specifying the administering Member State for each aircraft operator (Text with EEA relevance)

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,

Having regard to Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 October 2003 establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Community and amending Council Directive 96/61/EC (1), and in particular Article 18a(3)(b) thereof,

Whereas:

(1) Directive 2008/101/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (2) amended Directive 2003/87/EC to include aviation activities in the scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Union.

(2) Commission Regulation (EC) No 748/2009 (3) establishes a list of aircraft operators which performed an aviation activity listed in Annex I to Directive 2003/87/EC on or after 1 January 2006.

(3) That list aims to reduce the administrative burden on aircraft operators by providing information on which Member State will be regulating a particular aircraft operator.

(4) The inclusion of an aircraft operator in the Union`s emissions trading scheme is dependent upon the performance of an aviation activity listed in Annex I to Directive 2003/87/EC and is not dependent on the inclusion in the list of aircraft operators established by the Commission on the basis of Article 18a(3) of that Directive.

(5) Changes to the list of aircraft operators are based on the latest data provided by Eurocontrol.

(6) This Regulation should enter into force as a matter of urgency in order to meet the deadline for the yearly updating of the list of aircraft operators laid down in Article 18a(3)(b) of Directive 2003/87/EC.

(7) Regulation (EC) No 748/2009 should therefore be amended accordingly,

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:

#### Article 1

The Annex to Regulation (EC) No 748/2009 is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation.

#### Article 2

This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.

Done at Brussels, 20 February 2017.

**For the Commission
 The President
 Jean-Claude JUNCKER**

(1) [OJ L 275, 25.10.2003, p. 32](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2003_275_R_TOC).

(2) Directive 2008/101/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008 amending Directive 2003/87/EC so as to include aviation activities in the scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Community ([OJ L 8, 13.1.2009, p. 3](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2009_008_R_TOC)).

(3) Commission Regulation (EC) No 748/2009 of 5 August 2009 on the list of aircraft operators which performed an aviation activity listed in Annex I to Directive 2003/87/EC on or after 1 January 2006 specifying the administering Member State for each aircraft operator ([OJ L 219, 22.8.2009, p. 1](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2009_219_R_TOC)).
