---
title: "Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1133/2013 of 7 November 2013 approving minor amendments to the specification for a name entered in the register of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications (Kaki Ribera del Xúquer (AOP))"
identifier: "32013R1133"
country: "eu"
rank: "implementing_regulation"
publication_date: "2013-11-07"
last_updated: "2026-04-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2013/1133/oj"
department: "European Commission"
eli: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2013/1133/oj"
entry_into_force: "2013-12-03"
celex: "32013R1133"
regulation_type: "REG_IMPL"
---
# Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1133/2013 of 7 November 2013 approving minor amendments to the specification for a name entered in the register of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications (Kaki Ribera del Xúquer (AOP))

# COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) No 1133/2013 of 7 November 2013 approving minor amendments to the specification for a name entered in the register of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications (Kaki Ribera del Xúquer (AOP))

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,

Having regard to Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on quality schemes for agricultural products and foodstuffs (1), and in particular the second subparagraph of Article 53(2) thereof,

Whereas:

(1) In accordance with the first subparagraph of Article 53(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012, the Commission has examined Spain’s application for the approval of amendments to the specification for the protected designation of origin ‘Kaki Ribera del Xúquer’ registered under Commission Regulation (EC) No 245/2002 (2).

(2) The purpose of this application is to amend the specification in order to clarify the description of the product by including maximum tolerance limits for any slight skin imperfections that the product may have.

(3) The Commission has examined the amendments in question and decided that they are justified. Since the amendments are minor within the meaning of the third subparagraph of Article 53(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012, the Commission may approve them without following the procedure set out in Articles 50 to 52 of that Regulation,

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:

#### Article 1

The specification for the protected designation of origin ‘Kaki Ribera del Xúquer’ is hereby amended in accordance with Annex I to this Regulation.

#### Article 2

Annex II to this Regulation contains the consolidated Single Document setting out the main points of the specification.

#### Article 3

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.

Done at Brussels, 7 November 2013.

**For the Commission, On behalf of the President,
 Dacian CIOLOȘ
 Member of the Commission**

(1) [OJ L 343, 14.12.2012, p. 1](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2012_343_R_TOC).

(2) [OJ L 39, 9.2.2002, p. 12](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2002_039_R_TOC).
