---
title: "Commission Regulation (EU) 2015/2256 of 4 December 2015 amending Regulation (EC) No 1983/2003 implementing Regulation (EC) No 1177/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning Community statistics on income and living conditions (EU-SILC) as regards the list of target primary variables (Text with EEA relevance)"
identifier: "32015R2256"
country: "eu"
rank: "regulation"
publication_date: "2015-12-04"
last_updated: "2026-04-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2015/2256/oj"
department: "European Commission"
eli: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2015/2256/oj"
entry_into_force: "2015-12-25"
celex: "32015R2256"
regulation_type: "REG"
---
# Commission Regulation (EU) 2015/2256 of 4 December 2015 amending Regulation (EC) No 1983/2003 implementing Regulation (EC) No 1177/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning Community statistics on income and living conditions (EU-SILC) as regards the list of target primary variables (Text with EEA relevance)

# COMMISSION REGULATION (EU) 2015/2256 of 4 December 2015 amending Regulation (EC) No 1983/2003 implementing Regulation (EC) No 1177/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning Community statistics on income and living conditions (EU-SILC) as regards the list of target primary variables (Text with EEA relevance)

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,

Having regard to Regulation (EC) No 1177/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 June 2003 concerning Community statistics on income and living conditions (EU-SILC) (1), and in particular Article 15(2)(a) thereof,

Whereas:

(1) Regulation (EC) No 1177/2003 established a common framework for the systematic production of European statistics on income and living conditions.

(2) Commission Regulation (EC) No 1983/2003 (2) adopted the list of target primary variables, the codes for these variables and the technical format of data transmission for the main operation of EU-SILC.

(3) At its meeting of 7 and 8 June 2010, the Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumer Affairs Council decided that the mid-term review of the Union headline target to be carried out in 2015 should also include a review of the indicators taking into account economic developments and improved measurement instruments.

(4) In view of this, Commission Regulations (EU) No 112/2013 (3) and (EU) No 67/2014 (4) included new variables measuring material deprivation among households and individuals (adults) in the list of secondary target variables on which data is to be collected in 2014 and 2015.

(5) It is also necessary to adapt the list of primary target variables for future data collections. This involves removing obsolete variables from and adding new variables to the Annex to Commission Regulation (EC) No 1983/2003. These items have been selected for a robust measure of material deprivation after two in-depth statistical analyses, based on data collected in the 2009 and 2013 EU-SILC.

(6) Commission Regulation (EC) No 1983/2003 should therefore be amended accordingly.

(7) The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Statistical System Committee,

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:

#### Article 1

The Annex to Regulation (EC) No 1983/2003 is amended in accordance with the Annex to this Regulation.

#### Article 2

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.

Done at Brussels, 4 December 2015.

**For the Commission
 The President
 Jean-Claude JUNCKER**

(1) [OJ L 165, 3.7.2003, p. 1](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2003_165_R_TOC).

(2) Commission Regulation (EC) No 1983/2003 of 7 November 2003 implementing Regulation (EC) No 1177/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning Community statistics on income and living conditions (EU-SILC) as regards the list of target primary variables ([OJ L 298, 17.11.2003, p. 34](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2003_298_R_TOC)).

(3) Commission Regulation (EU) No 112/2013 of 7 February 2013 implementing Regulation (EC) No 1177/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning Community statistics on income and living conditions (EU-SILC) as regards the 2014 list of target secondary variables on material deprivation ([OJ L 37, 8.2.2013, p. 2](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2013_037_R_TOC)).

(4) Commission Regulation (EU) No 67/2014 of 27 January 2014 implementing Regulation (EC) No 1177/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning Community statistics on income and living conditions (EU-SILC) as regards the 2015 list of target secondary variables on social and cultural participation and material deprivation ([OJ L 23, 28.1.2014, p. 1](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2014_023_R_TOC)).
