---
title: "Council Regulation (EU) 2020/213 of 17 February 2020 amending Regulation (EC) No 314/2004 concerning certain restrictive measures in respect of Zimbabwe"
identifier: "32020R0213"
country: "eu"
rank: "regulation"
publication_date: "2020-02-17"
last_updated: "2026-04-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2020/213/oj"
department: "Council of the European Union"
eli: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2020/213/oj"
entry_into_force: "2020-02-19"
celex: "32020R0213"
regulation_type: "REG"
---
# Council Regulation (EU) 2020/213 of 17 February 2020 amending Regulation (EC) No 314/2004 concerning certain restrictive measures in respect of Zimbabwe

# COUNCIL REGULATION (EU) 2020/213 of 17 February 2020 amending Regulation (EC) No 314/2004 concerning certain restrictive measures in respect of Zimbabwe

THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION,

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 215 thereof,

Having regard to Council Decision (CFSP) 2020/215 of 17 February 2020 amending Decision 2011/101/CFSP concerning restrictive measures against Zimbabwe (1),

Having regard to the joint proposal of the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and of the European Commission,

Whereas:

(1) Council Regulation (EC) No 314/2004 (2) gives effect to several measures provided for by Council Decision 2011/101/CFSP (3), including the freezing of funds and economic resources of certain natural or legal persons, entities and bodies.

(2) On 17 February 2020 the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2020/215, which amended the title of Decision 2011/101/CFSP and suspended the restrictive measures with regard to one person.

(3) Regulation (EC) No 314/2004 should be amended accordingly,

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:

#### Article 1

Regulation (EC) No 314/2004 is amended as follows:

(1) the title is replaced by the following:
   ‘Council Regulation (EC) No 314/2004 concerning restrictive measures in view of the situation in Zimbabwe’.

(2) Annex IV is replaced by the Annex to this Regulation.

#### Article 2

This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.

Done at Brussels, 17 February 2020.

**For the Council
 The President
 J. BORRELL FONTELLES**

(1) See page 4 of this Official Journal.

(2) Council Regulation (EC) No 314/2004 of 19 February 2004 concerning certain restrictive measures in respect of Zimbabwe ([OJ L 55, 24.2.2004, p. 1](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2004_055_R_TOC)).

(3) Council Decision 2011/101/CFSP of 15 February 2011 concerning restrictive measures against Zimbabwe ([OJ L 42, 16.2.2011, p. 6](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2011_042_R_TOC)).
