---
title: "Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2024/298 of 7 November 2023 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1700 of the European Parliament and of the Council by specifying the number and the title of the variables for the 2025 ad hoc subject Energy and the environment in the income and living conditions domain"
identifier: "32024R0298"
country: "eu"
rank: "delegated_regulation"
publication_date: "2023-11-07"
last_updated: "2026-04-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2024/298/oj"
department: "European Commission, ESTAT"
eli: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2024/298/oj"
entry_into_force: "2024-02-07"
celex: "32024R0298"
regulation_type: "REG_DEL"
---
# Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2024/298 of 7 November 2023 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1700 of the European Parliament and of the Council by specifying the number and the title of the variables for the 2025 ad hoc subject Energy and the environment in the income and living conditions domain

# COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) 2024/298 of 7 November 2023 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1700 of the European Parliament and of the Council by specifying the number and the title of the variables for the 2025 ad hoc subject ‘Energy and the environment’ in the income and living conditions domain (Text with EEA relevance)

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,

Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2019/1700 of the European Parliament and the Council of 10 October 2019 establishing a common framework for European statistics relating to persons and households, based on data at individual level collected from samples, amending Regulations (EC) No 808/2004, (EC) No 452/2008 and (EC) No 1338/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1177/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Council Regulation (EC) No 577/98 (1), and in particular Article 6(1) thereof,

Whereas:

(1) The income and living conditions domain, set out in Article 3(1), point (b) of Regulation (EU) 2019/1700, provides the information required for the European Semester (2) and the European Pillar of Social Rights (3), in particular on income distribution, poverty and social exclusion. It also provides information for various other Union policies related to living conditions and poverty.

(2) The ad hoc subject to be collected in 2025 on ‘Energy and the environment’ in accordance with Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/256 (4) is of key importance, especially in view of the Commission Communication ‘Fit for 55’ (5) which envisages a proposal for a recommendation (6) on ensuring a fair transition towards climate neutrality.

(3) The Commission should specify the number and the title of the variables for the ad hoc subject ‘Energy and the environment’.

(4) Pursuant to Article 6(2) of Regulation (EU) 2019/1700, the number of variables to be collected is not to exceed by more than 5 % the number of variables collected for the income and living conditions domain as at 3 November 2019,

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:

#### Article 1

The number and title of the variables for the 2025 ad hoc subject on ‘Energy and the environment’ in the income and living conditions domain, is set out in the Annex.

#### Article 2

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.

Done at Brussels, 7 November 2023.

**For the Commission
 The President
 Ursula VON DER LEYEN**

(1) [OJ L 261 I, 14.10.2019, p. 1](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2019_261_I_TOC).

(2) The European Semester is the European Union’s framework for the coordination and surveillance of economic and social policies.

(3) The European Parliament, the Council and the Commission proclaimed the European Pillar of Social Rights in 2017 at the Gothenburg Summit. The Pillar sets out 20 key principles to guide us towards a strong social Europe that is fair, inclusive and full of opportunity in the 21st century.

(4) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/256 of 16 December 2019 supplementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1700 of the European Parliament and of the Council by establishing a multiannual rolling planning ([OJ L 54, 26.2.2020, p. 1](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2020_054_R_TOC)).

(5) Communication from the Commission ‘
 “Fit for 55”: delivering the EU’s 2030 Climate Target on the way to climate neutrality’ (COM(2021) 550 final).

(6) Proposal for a Council Recommendation on ensuring a fair transition towards climate neutrality (COM(2021) 801 final).
