---
title: "Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/2157 of 6 December 2021 initiating a review of Implementing Regulations (EU) 2021/1266 and (EU) 2021/1267 extending, respectively, the definitive anti-dumping and countervailing duty on imports of biodiesel consigned from Canada, whether declared as originating in Canada or not, for the purposes of determining the possibility of granting an exemption from those measures to one Canadian exporting producer, repealing the anti-dumping duty with regard to imports from that exporting producer and making imports from that exporting producer subject to registration"
identifier: "32021R2157"
country: "eu"
rank: "implementing_regulation"
publication_date: "2021-12-06"
last_updated: "2026-04-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2021/2157/oj"
department: "European Commission, TRADE"
eli: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2021/2157/oj"
entry_into_force: "2021-12-08"
end_of_validity: "2026-08-03"
celex: "32021R2157"
regulation_type: "REG_IMPL"
---
# Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/2157 of 6 December 2021 initiating a review of Implementing Regulations (EU) 2021/1266 and (EU) 2021/1267 extending, respectively, the definitive anti-dumping and countervailing duty on imports of biodiesel consigned from Canada, whether declared as originating in Canada or not, for the purposes of determining the possibility of granting an exemption from those measures to one Canadian exporting producer, repealing the anti-dumping duty with regard to imports from that exporting producer and making imports from that exporting producer subject to registration

# COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2021/2157 of 6 December 2021 initiating a review of Implementing Regulations (EU) 2021/1266 and (EU) 2021/1267 extending, respectively, the definitive anti-dumping and countervailing duty on imports of biodiesel consigned from Canada, whether declared as originating in Canada or not, for the purposes of determining the possibility of granting an exemption from those measures to one Canadian exporting producer, repealing the anti-dumping duty with regard to imports from that exporting producer and making imports from that exporting producer subject to registration

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,

Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Union (1) (‘the basic anti-dumping Regulation’) and in particular Article 13(4) and 14(5) thereof and to Regulation (EU) 2016/1037 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the European Union (2) (‘the basic anti-subsidy Regulation’) and in particular to Article 23(6) thereof,

Having regard to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/1266 of 29 July 2021 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of biodiesel originating in the United States of America following an expiry review pursuant to Article 11(2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 (3) and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/1267 of 29 July 2021 imposing definitive countervailing duty on imports of biodiesel originating in the United States of America following an expiry review pursuant to Article 18 of Regulation (EU) 2016/1037 (4).

After informing the Member States,

Whereas:

(1) The European Commission (‘the Commission’) received a request for an exemption from the anti-dumping and countervailing measures applicable to imports of biodiesel consigned from Canada, whether declared as originating in Canada or not, as far as Verbio Diesel Canada Corporation (‘the applicant’) is concerned, pursuant to Article 13(4) of the basic anti-dumping Regulation and Article 23(6) of the basic anti-subsidy Regulation.

(2) The request was submitted on 7 September 2021 by the applicant, who is an exporting producer of biodiesel in Canada (‘the country concerned’).

(3) The product under review is fatty-acid mono-alkyl esters and/or paraffinic gasoil obtained from synthesis and/or hydro-treatment, of non-fossil origin, commonly known as ‘biodiesel’, in pure form or in a blend containing by weight more than 20 % of fatty-acid mono-alkyl esters and/or paraffinic gasoil obtained from synthesis and/or hydro- treatment, of non-fossil origin, consigned from Canada, whether declared as originating in Canada or not, currently falling under CN codes ex 1516 20 98 (TARIC code 1516209821), ex 1518 00 91 (TARIC code 1518009121), ex 1518 00 99 (TARIC code 1518009921), ex 2710 19 43 (TARIC code 2710194321), ex 2710 19 46 (TARIC code 2710194621), ex 2710 19 47 (TARIC code 2710194721), ex 2710 20 11 (TARIC code 2710201121), ex 2710 20 16 (TARIC code 2710201621), ex 3824 99 92 (TARIC code 3824999210), ex 3826 00 10 (TARIC codes 3826001020, 3826001050, 3826001089) and ex 3826 00 90 (TARIC code 3826009011).

(4) By Regulations (EC) No 598/2009 (5) and (EC) No 599/2009 (6), the Council imposed definitive countervailing and anti-dumping duties on imports of biodiesel originating in the United States of America.

(5) These measures were extended by Council Implementing Regulations (EU) No 443/2011 (7) and (EU) No 444/2011 (8), to imports of biodiesel consigned from Canada, whether declared as originating in Canada or not.

(6) The measures currently in force are imposed by Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/1266 following an expiry review pursuant to Article 11(2) of the basic anti-dumping Regulation and by Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/1267 following an expiry review pursuant to Article 18(2) of the basic anti-subsidy Regulation.

(7) The applicant alleged that it did not export the product under review to the Union during the investigation period used in the investigation that led to the extended measures as adopted by Implementing Regulations (EU) No 443/2011 and (EU) No 444/2011, namely the period from 1 April 2009 to 30 June 2010 (‘the original IP’). According to the evidence submitted by the applicant, the applicant was only legally created in 2019, whereas the plant was built and opened after the original IP in 2012.

(8) In addition, the applicant provided evidence that it is a genuine producer and alleged that it has not circumvented the existing measures.

(9) The applicant further claimed that after the original IP, in July 2021, it exported the product under review to the Union.

(10) The Commission examined the evidence available and concluded that there was sufficient evidence to justify the initiation of an investigation pursuant to Article 13(4) of the basic anti-dumping Regulation and to Article 23(6) of the basic anti-subsidy Regulation for the purpose of determining the possibility of granting the applicant an exemption from the extended measures.

(11) The Union industry known to be concerned was informed of the request for a review and was given an opportunity to comment. No comments were received.

(12) In its investigation, the Commission will pay particular attention to the applicant’s relationship with the companies subject to the existing measures in order to ensure that it was not established in order to be used to circumvent the measures. The Commission will also consider whether particular monitoring conditions should be imposed in case the investigation will conclude that granting the exemption is warranted.

(13) In line with Article 11(4) of the basic anti-dumping Regulation, in cases of new exporters in the exporting country in question which have not exported the product during the period of investigation on which the measures were based, the anti-dumping duty in force should be repealed with regard to imports of the product under review which are produced and sold for export to the Union by the applicant.

(14) At the same time, such imports should be made subject to registration in accordance with Article 14(5) of the basic anti-dumping Regulation in order to ensure that, should the review result in a finding of circumvention in respect of the applicant, anti-dumping duties can be levied from the date of the registration of these imports. The amount of the applicant’s possible future liabilities would be equal to the duty applicable to ‘all other companies’ in Article 1(2) of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/1266 (172,2 EUR/tonne).

(15) Since the basic anti-subsidy Regulation does not provide for the repeal of the countervailing duties in cases where exporters were not individually investigated during the original investigation, these measures will remain in force. Only if the review should result in the finding that the applicant is entitled to an exemption, will the anti-subsidy measures in force be repealed with regard to the applicant.

(16) The investigation will cover the period from 1 April 2009 to 30 September 2021 (‘review investigation period’).

(17) In order to obtain information it deems necessary for its investigation, the Commission will send a questionnaire to the applicant. The applicant must submit the completed questionnaire within 37 days of the date of entry into force of this Regulation, unless otherwise specified, pursuant to Article 6(2) of the basic anti-dumping Regulation and Article 11(2) of the basic anti-subsidy Regulation.

(18) Subject to the provisions of this Regulation, all interested parties are invited to make their views known, submit information and provide supporting evidence. Unless otherwise specified, this information and supporting evidence must reach the Commission within 37 days of the date of entry into force of this Regulation.

(19) All interested parties may request to be heard by the Commission investigation services. Any request to be heard must be made in writing and must specify the reasons for the request. For hearings on issues pertaining to the initiation of the investigation, the request must be submitted within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this Regulation. Thereafter, a request to be heard must be submitted within the specific deadlines set by the Commission in its communication with the parties.

(20) Information submitted to the Commission for the purpose of trade defence investigations shall be free from copyrights. Interested parties, before submitting to the Commission information and/or data that is subject to third party copyrights, must request specific permission to the copyright holder explicitly allowing the Commission a) to use the information and data for the purpose of this trade defence proceeding and b) to provide the information and/or data to interested parties to this investigation in a form that allows them to exercise their rights of defence.

(21) All written submissions, including the information requested in this Regulation, completed questionnaires and correspondence provided by interested parties for which confidential treatment is requested shall be labelled ‘Sensitive’. Parties submitting information in the course of this investigation are invited to reason their request for confidential treatment.

(22) Parties providing ‘Sensitive’ information are required to furnish non-confidential summaries of it pursuant to Article 19(2) of the basic anti-dumping Regulation and Article 29(2) of the basic anti-subsidy Regulation, which will be labelled ‘For inspection by interested parties’. Those summaries should be sufficiently detailed to permit a reasonable understanding of the substance of the information submitted in confidence.

(23) If a party providing ‘Sensitive’ information fails to show good cause for a confidential treatment request or does not furnish a non-confidential summary of it in the requested format and quality, the Commission may disregard such information unless it can be satisfactorily demonstrated from appropriate sources that the information is correct.

(24) Interested parties are invited to make all submissions and requests by email including scanned powers of attorney and certification sheets, with the exception of voluminous replies which should be submitted on a portable digital storage medium (CD-ROM, DVD, USB flash drive) by hand or by registered mail. By using email, interested parties express their agreement with the rules applicable to electronic submissions contained in the document ‘CORRESPONDENCE WITH THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION IN TRADE DEFENCE CASES’ published on the website of the Directorate-General for Trade: http://trade.ec.europa.eu/doclib/docs/2011/june/tradoc_148003.pdf

(26) In order to guarantee the rights of defence, interested parties should have the possibility to comment on information submitted by other interested parties. When doing so, interested parties may only address issues raised in the other interested parties’ submissions and may not raise new issues. Comments on the information provided by other interested parties in reaction to the disclosure of the definitive findings should be submitted within 5 days from the deadline to comment on the definitive findings, unless otherwise specified. If there is an additional final disclosure, comments filed by other interested parties in reaction to this further disclosure should be made within 1 day from the deadline to comment on this further disclosure, unless otherwise specified. The outlined timeframe is without prejudice to the Commission’s right to request additional information from interested parties in duly justified cases.

(27) Any extension to the time limits provided for in this Regulation should only be requested in exceptional circumstances and will only be granted if duly justified upon good cause being shown.

(28) In any event, any extension to the deadline to reply to questionnaires will be limited normally to 3 days, and as a rule will not exceed 7 days.

(29) Regarding time limits for the submission of other information specified in the Regulation, extensions will be limited to 3 days unless exceptional circumstances are demonstrated.

(30) In cases where any interested party refuses access to or does not provide the necessary information within the time limits, or significantly impedes the investigation, findings, affirmative or negative, may be made on the basis of facts available, in accordance with Article 18 of the basic anti-dumping Regulation and Article 28 of the basic anti-subsidy Regulation.

(31) Where it is found that any interested party has supplied false or misleading information, the information may be disregarded and use may be made of facts available.

(32) If an interested party does not cooperate or cooperates only partially and findings are therefore based on facts available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic anti-dumping Regulation and Article 28 of the basic anti-subsidy Regulation, the result may be less favourable to that party than if it had cooperated.

(33) Failure to give a computerised response will not be deemed to constitute non-cooperation, provided that the interested party shows that presenting the response as requested would result in an unreasonable extra burden or unreasonable additional cost. The interested party should immediately contact the Commission.

(34) Interested parties may request the intervention of the Hearing Officer in trade proceedings. The Hearing Officer acts as an interface between the interested parties and the Commission investigation services. The Hearing Officer reviews requests for access to the file, disputes regarding the confidentiality of documents, requests for extension of time limits and requests by third parties to be heard. The Hearing Officer may organise a hearing with an individual interested party and mediate to ensure that the interested parties’ rights of defence are being fully exercised. The Hearing Officer will also provide opportunities for a hearing involving parties to take place, which would allow different views to be presented and rebuttal arguments offered.

(35) A request for a hearing with the Hearing Officer should be made in writing and should specify the reasons for the request. For hearings on issues pertaining to the initial stage of the investigation, parties are invited to submit their request within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this Regulation. Thereafter, requests to be heard by the Hearing Officer shall be submitted at the earliest possible time following the occurrence of the event justifying such intervention. The Hearing Officer will examine the reasons for requests for interventions, the nature of the issues raised and the impact of those issues on the rights of defence, having due regard to the interests of good administration and the timely completion of the investigation.

(36) For further information and contact details interested parties may consult the Hearing Officer’s web pages on DG Trade’s website: http://ec.europa.eu/trade/trade-policy-and-you/contacts/hearing-officer/

(37) The investigation will be concluded, pursuant to Article 11(5) of the basic anti-dumping Regulation and to Article 22(1) of the basic anti-subsidy Regulation, within nine months of the date of the entry into force of this Regulation.

(38) Any personal data collected in this investigation will be treated in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council (9).

(39) A data protection notice that informs all individuals of the processing of personal data in the framework of Commission’s trade defence activities is available on DG TRADE’s website: http://ec.europa.eu/trade/policy/accessing-markets/trade-defence/

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:

#### Article 1

A review is hereby initiated pursuant to Article 13(4) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 and Article 23(6) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1037 in order to establish whether the imports of fatty-acid mono-alkyl esters and/or paraffinic gasoil obtained from synthesis and/or hydro-treatment, of non-fossil origin, commonly known as ‘biodiesel’, in pure form or in a blend containing by weight more than 20 % of fatty-acid mono-alkyl esters and/or paraffinic gasoil obtained from synthesis and/or hydro-treatment, of non-fossil origin, consigned from Canada, whether declared as originating in Canada or not, currently falling under CN codes ex 1516 20 98 (TARIC code 1516209821), ex 1518 00 91 (TARIC code 1518009121), ex 1518 00 99 (TARIC code 1518009921), ex 2710 19 43 (TARIC code 2710194321), ex 2710 19 46 (TARIC code 2710194621), ex 2710 19 47 (TARIC code 2710194721), ex 2710 20 11 (TARIC code 2710201121), ex 2710 20 16 (TARIC code 2710201621), ex 3824 99 92 (TARIC code 3824999210), ex 3826 00 10 (TARIC codes 3826001020, 3826001050, 3826001089) and ex 3826 00 90 (TARIC code 3826009011), produced by Verbio Diesel Canada Corporation (TARIC additional code C600), should be subject to the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures imposed by Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/1266 and Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/1267.

#### Article 2

The anti-dumping duty imposed by Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/1266 is hereby repealed with regard to the imports identified in Article 1 of this Regulation.

#### Article 3

The Customs authorities shall take the appropriate steps to register the imports identified in Article 1 of this Regulation, pursuant to Article 14(5) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1036.

Registration shall expire nine months following the date of entry into force of this Regulation.

#### Article 4

This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in the Member States.

Done at Brussels, 6 December 2021.

**For the Commission
 The President
 Ursula VON DER LEYEN**

(1) [OJ L 176, 30.6.2016, p. 21](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2016_176_R_TOC).

(2) [OJ L 176, 30.6.2016, p. 55](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2016_176_R_TOC).

(3) [OJ L 277, 2.8.2021, p. 34](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2021_277_R_TOC).

(4) [OJ L 277, 2.8.2021, p. 62](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2021_277_R_TOC).

(5) Council Regulation (EC) No 598/2009 of 7 July 2009 imposing a definitive countervailing duty and collecting definitively the provisional duty imposed on imports of biodiesel originating in the United States of America ([OJ L 179, 10.7.2009, p. 1](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2009_179_R_TOC)).

(6) Council Regulation (EC) No 599/2009 of 7 July 2009 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and collecting definitively the provisional duty imposed on imports of biodiesel originating in the United States of America ([OJ L 179, 10.7.2009, p. 26](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2009_179_R_TOC)).

(7) Council Implementing Regulation (EU) No 443/2011 of 5 May 2011 extending the definitive countervailing duty imposed by Regulation (EC) No 598/2009 on imports of biodiesel originating in the United States of America to imports of biodiesel consigned from Canada, whether declared as originating in Canada or not, and extending the definitive countervailing duty imposed by Regulation (EC) No 598/2009 to imports of biodiesel in a blend containing by weight 20 % or less of biodiesel originating in the United States of America, and terminating the investigation in respect of imports consigned from Singapore ([OJ L 122, 11.5.2011, p. 1](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2011_122_R_TOC)).

(8) Council Implementing Regulation (EU) No 444/2011 of 5 May 2011 extending the definitive anti-dumping duty imposed by Regulation (EC) No 599/2009 on imports of biodiesel originating in the United States of America to imports of biodiesel consigned from Canada, whether declared as originating in Canada or not, and extending the definitive anti-dumping duty imposed by Regulation (EC) No 599/2009 to imports of biodiesel in a blend containing by weight 20 % or less of biodiesel originating in the United States of America, and terminating the investigation in respect of imports consigned from Singapore ([OJ L 122, 11.5.2011, p. 12](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2011_122_R_TOC)).

(9) Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the Union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 and Decision No 1247/2002/EC ([OJ L 295, 21.11.2018, p. 39](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2018_295_R_TOC)).
