---
title: "Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2252 of 11 November 2022 granting a Union authorisation for the biocidal product family ‘Brenntag GmbH Propan-2-ol Product Family’ (Text with EEA relevance)"
identifier: "32022R2252"
country: "eu"
rank: "implementing_regulation"
publication_date: "2022-11-11"
last_updated: "2026-04-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2022/2252/oj"
department: "European Commission, SANTE"
eli: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2022/2252/oj"
entry_into_force: "2022-12-07"
celex: "32022R2252"
regulation_type: "REG_IMPL"
---
# Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/2252 of 11 November 2022 granting a Union authorisation for the biocidal product family ‘Brenntag GmbH Propan-2-ol Product Family’ (Text with EEA relevance)

# COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2022/2252 of 11 November 2022 granting a Union authorisation for the biocidal product family ‘Brenntag GmbH Propan-2-ol Product Family’ (Text with EEA relevance)

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,

Having regard to Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2012 concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products (1), and in particular the Article 44(5), first subparagraph, thereof,

Whereas:

(1) On 30 June 2016, Brenntag GmbH submitted an application in accordance with Article 43(1) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 for authorisation of a biocidal product family named ‘Brenntag GmbH Propan-2-ol Product Family’ of product-types 1, 2 and 4, as described in Annex V to that Regulation, providing written confirmation that the competent authority of Germany had agreed to evaluate the application. The application was recorded under case number BC-BL025673-43 in the Register for Biocidal Products.

(2) ‘Brenntag GmbH Propan-2-ol Product Family’ contains propan-2-ol as the active substance, which is included in the Union list of approved active substance referred to in Article 9(2) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 for product-types 1, 2 and 4.

(3) On 15 March 2021, the evaluating competent authority submitted, in accordance with Article 44(1) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012, an assessment report and the conclusions of its evaluation to the European Chemicals Agency (‘the Agency’).

(4) On 4 November 2021, the Agency submitted to the Commission an opinion (2), including the draft summary of the biocidal product characteristics (‘SPC’) of ‘Brenntag GmbH Propan-2-ol Product Family’ and the final assessment report on the biocidal product family in accordance with Article 44(3) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012.

(5) The opinion concludes that ‘Brenntag GmbH Propan-2-ol Product Family’ is a ‘biocidal product family’ within the meaning of Article 3(1), point (s), of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012, that it is eligible for Union authorisation in accordance with Article 42(1) of that Regulation and that subject to compliance with the draft SPC, it meets the conditions laid down in Article 19(1) and (6) of that Regulation.

(6) On 22 November 2021, the Agency transmitted to the Commission the draft SPC in all the official languages of the Union in accordance with Article 44(4) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012.

(7) The Commission concurs with the opinion of the Agency and considers it therefore appropriate to grant a Union authorisation for ‘Brenntag GmbH Propan-2-ol Product Family’.

(8) The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on biocidal products,

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:

#### Article 1

A Union authorisation with authorisation number EU-0027707-0000 is granted to Brenntag GmbH for the making available on the market and use of the biocidal product family ‘Brenntag GmbH Propan-2-ol Product Family’ in accordance with the summary of the biocidal product characteristics set out in the Annex.

The Union Authorisation is valid from 7 December 2022 to 30 November 2032.

#### Article 2

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.

Done at Brussels, 11 November 2022.

**For the Commission
 The President
 Ursula VON DER LEYEN**

(1) [OJ L 167, 27.6.2012, p. 1](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2012_167_R_TOC).

(2) ECHA opinion of 7 October 2021 on the Union authorisation of ‘Brenntag GmbH Propan-2-ol Product Family’ (ECHA/BPC/290/2021), https://echa.europa.eu/bpc-opinions-on-union-authorisation
