---
title: "Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1985 of 2 October 2025 correcting Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1135 imposing a definitive countervailing duty on imports of optical fibre cables originating in India and amending Implementing Regulation (EU) 2024/3014 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of optical fibre cables originating in India"
identifier: "32025R1985"
country: "eu"
rank: "implementing_regulation"
publication_date: "2025-10-02"
last_updated: "2026-04-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2025/1985/oj"
department: "European Commission, TRADE"
eli: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2025/1985/oj"
entry_into_force: "2025-06-12"
end_of_validity: "2029-12-17"
celex: "32025R1985"
regulation_type: "REG_IMPL"
---
# Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1985 of 2 October 2025 correcting Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1135 imposing a definitive countervailing duty on imports of optical fibre cables originating in India and amending Implementing Regulation (EU) 2024/3014 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of optical fibre cables originating in India

# COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2025/1985 of 2 October 2025 correcting Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1135 imposing a definitive countervailing duty on imports of optical fibre cables originating in India and amending Implementing Regulation (EU) 2024/3014 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of optical fibre cables originating in India

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,

Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/1036 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Union (1), and in particular Articles 9 and 14(1), and to Regulation (EU) 2016/1037 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the European Union (2), and in particular Articles 15 and 24(1) thereof,

Whereas:

(1) Anti-dumping and countervailing duties on imports of optical fibre cables originating in India were imposed by Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2024/3014 (3) and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1135 (4), respectively. A request for clarification from customs authorities brought to the Commission’s attention an error in the duty rates concerning companies which cooperated with the anti-dumping investigation but not with the subsidy investigation. In particular, Finolex Cables Limited was erroneously subject to the countervailing and anti-dumping duties applicable to non-cooperating companies in both investigations and Aksh Optifibre Limited and Polycab India Limited were erroneously subject to the countervailing and anti-dumping duties applicable to cooperating companies in both investigations.

(3) Therefore, the Commission considered it appropriate to amend Article 1, Article 2 and the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1135.

(4) The revised level of duties should apply as of the entry into force of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1135 (12 June 2025) in order to ensure that companies are not levied duties in excess. Customs authorities are instructed to collect the appropriate amounts of duties and refund any excess amount collected so far in accordance with the applicable customs legislation.

(5) On 1 August 2025, the Commission informed all interested parties of the essential facts and considerations on the basis of which it intended to correct the definitive anti-dumping and countervailing measures on imports of optical fibre cables originating in India (‘final disclosure’). All parties were granted a period within which they could make comments on the final disclosure. No comments were received.

(6) The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 15(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1036,

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:

#### Article 1

Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1135 is amended as follows:

(4) the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1135 is replaced by Annex I and Annex II.

#### Article 2

Any combined definitive anti-dumping and countervailing duties paid pursuant to Implementing Regulations (EU) 2024/3014 and (EU) 2025/1135 in excess of the combined definitive anti-dumping and countervailing duties established in Article 1 shall be repaid or remitted. The repayment or remission shall be requested from national customs authorities in accordance with the applicable customs legislation.

#### Article 3

This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.

It shall apply as of 12 June 2025.

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.

Done at Brussels, 2 October 2025.

**For the Commission
 The President
 Ursula VON DER LEYEN**

(1) [OJ L 176, 30.6.2016, p. 21](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2016_176_R_TOC), ELI: [http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2016/1036/oj](http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2016/1036/oj).

(2) [OJ L 176, 30.6.2016, p. 55](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2016_176_R_TOC), ELI: [http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2016/1037/oj](http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2016/1037/oj).

(3) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2024/3014 of 13 December 2024 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and definitively collecting the provisional duty imposed on imports of optical fibre cables originating in India ([OJ L, 2024/3014, 16.12.2024, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2024/3014/oj](https://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2024/3014/oj)).

(4) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1135 of 10 June 2025 imposing a definitive countervailing duty on imports of optical fibre cables originating in India and amending Implementing Regulation (EU) 2024/3014 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of optical fibre cables originating in India ([OJ L, 2025/1135, 11.6.2025, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2025/1135/oj](https://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2025/1135/oj)).
