---
title: "Council Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1438 of 15 July 2025 implementing Regulation (EU) 2024/1485 concerning restrictive measures in view of the situation in Russia"
identifier: "32025R1438"
country: "eu"
rank: "implementing_regulation"
publication_date: "2025-07-15"
last_updated: "2026-04-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2025/1438/oj"
department: "Council of the European Union"
eli: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2025/1438/oj"
entry_into_force: "2025-07-15"
celex: "32025R1438"
regulation_type: "REG_IMPL"
---
# Council Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1438 of 15 July 2025 implementing Regulation (EU) 2024/1485 concerning restrictive measures in view of the situation in Russia

# COUNCIL IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2025/1438 of 15 July 2025 implementing Regulation (EU) 2024/1485 concerning restrictive measures in view of the situation in Russia

THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION,

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,

Having regard to Council Regulation (EU) 2024/1485 of 27 May 2024 concerning restrictive measures in view of the situation in Russia (1), and in particular Article 17(1) thereof,

Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy,

Whereas:

(1) On 27 May 2024, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) 2024/1485.

(2) The Union remains unwavering in its condemnation of the human rights violations and repressions in Russia. On 27 January 2025, the Council approved conclusions on Union priorities in UN Human Rights fora in 2025. The Union condemned the silencing of dissenting voices, civil society, independent media and stigmatised groups in the Russian Federation, and called for the immediate and unconditional release of all political prisoners in Russia and to end the persecution of the political opposition.

(3) In view of the gravity of the situation, the Council considers that 5 natural persons should be added to the list of natural and legal persons, entities and bodies set out in Annex IV to Regulation (EU) 2024/1485.

(4) Regulation (EU) 2024/1485 should therefore be amended accordingly,

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:

#### Article 1

Annex IV to Regulation (EU) 2024/1485 is amended in accordance with the Annex to this Regulation.

#### Article 2

This Regulation shall enter into force on the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.

Done at Brussels, 15 July 2025.

**For the Council
 The President
 K. KALLAS**

(1) [OJ L, 2024/1485, 27.5.2024, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/1485/oj](https://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/1485/oj).
