---
title: "Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2023/2701 of 4 December 2023 granting a Union authorisation for the single biocidal product EuLA hydra-lime 23 in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council"
identifier: "32023R2701"
country: "eu"
rank: "implementing_regulation"
publication_date: "2023-12-04"
last_updated: "2026-04-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2023/2701/oj"
department: "European Commission, SANTE"
eli: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2023/2701/oj"
entry_into_force: "2023-12-25"
celex: "32023R2701"
regulation_type: "REG_IMPL"
---
# Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2023/2701 of 4 December 2023 granting a Union authorisation for the single biocidal product EuLA hydra-lime 23 in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council

# COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2023/2701 of 4 December 2023 granting a Union authorisation for the single biocidal product ‘EuLA hydra-lime 23’ in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (Text with EEA relevance)

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,

Having regard to Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2012 concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products (1), and in particular Article 44(5), first subparagraph, thereof,

Whereas:

(1) On 29 March 2018, European Lime Association aisbl submitted to the European Chemicals Agency (‘the Agency’) an application in accordance with Article 43(1) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 for a Union authorisation of a single biocidal product named ‘EuLA hydra-lime 23’ of product-types 2 and 3, as described in Annex V to that Regulation, providing written confirmation that the competent authority of France had agreed to evaluate the application. The application was recorded under case number BC-JR038510-32 in the Register for Biocidal Products.

(2) ‘EuLA hydra-lime 23’ contains calcium dihydroxide (hydrated lime) as the active substance, included in the Union list of approved active substances referred to in Article 9(2) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 for product-types 2 and 3.

(3) On 13 December 2021, the evaluating competent authority submitted, in accordance with Article 44(1) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012, an assessment report and the conclusions of its evaluation to the Agency.

(4) On 5 July 2022, the Agency submitted to the Commission its opinion (2), the draft summary of the biocidal product characteristics (‘SPC’) of ‘EuLA hydra-lime 23’ and the final assessment report on the single biocidal product, in accordance with Article 44(3) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012.

(5) The opinion concludes that ‘EuLA hydra-lime 23’ is a biocidal product within the meaning of Article 3(1), point (a), of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012, that it is eligible for Union authorisation in accordance with Article 42(1) of that Regulation and that, subject to compliance with the draft SPC, it meets the conditions laid down in Article 19(1) of that Regulation.

(6) On 18 July 2022, the Agency transmitted to the Commission the draft SPC in all the official languages of the Union in accordance with Article 44(4) of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012.

(7) The Commission concurs with the opinion of the Agency and considers it therefore appropriate to grant a Union authorisation for ‘EuLA hydra-lime 23’.

(8) The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Biocidal Products,

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:

#### Article 1

A Union authorisation with authorisation number EU-0028954-0000 is hereby granted to European Lime Association aisbl for the making available on the market and use of the single biocidal product ‘EuLA hydra-lime 23’ in accordance with the summary of the biocidal product characteristics set out in the Annex.

The Union authorisation is valid from 25 December 2023 to 30 November 2033.

#### Article 2

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.

Done at Brussels, 4 December 2023.

**For the Commission
 The President
 Ursula VON DER LEYEN**

(1) [OJ L 167, 27.6.2012, p. 1](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2012_167_R_TOC).

(2) ECHA opinion of 14 June 2022 on the Union authorisation of ‘EULA HYDRA-LIME 23’ (ECHA/BPC/341/2022) (https://echa.europa.eu/it/opinions-on-union-authorisation).
