---
title: "Regulation (EU) 2020/1041 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2020 amending Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 as regards the resources for the specific allocation for the Youth Employment Initiative"
identifier: "32020R1041"
country: "eu"
rank: "regulation"
publication_date: "2020-07-15"
last_updated: "2026-04-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2020/1041/oj"
department: "Council of the European Union, European Parliament"
eli: "http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2020/1041/oj"
entry_into_force: "2020-07-18"
celex: "32020R1041"
regulation_type: "REG"
---
# Regulation (EU) 2020/1041 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2020 amending Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 as regards the resources for the specific allocation for the Youth Employment Initiative

# REGULATION (EU) 2020/1041 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 15 July 2020 amending Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 as regards the resources for the specific allocation for the Youth Employment Initiative

THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION,

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 177 thereof,

Having regard to the proposal from the European Commission,

After transmission of the draft legislative act to the national parliaments,

Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee (1),

After consulting the Committee of the Regions,

Acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure (2),

Whereas:

(1) Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council (3) lays down the common and general rules applicable to the European Structural and Investment Funds.

(2) The general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2020 (4) amended the total amount of resources for the Youth Employment Initiative (‘YEI’) by increasing commitment appropriations for the specific allocation for the YEI in 2020 by EUR 28 333 334 in current prices and increasing the total amount of commitment appropriations for the specific allocation for the YEI for the entire programming period to EUR 4 556 215 406 in current prices.

(3) For 2020, the additional resources of EUR 23,7 million in 2011 prices are funded by the Global Margin for Commitments within the margin of the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014–2020.

(4) In view of the urgency to amend the programmes which support the YEI in order to include the additional resources for the specific allocation for the YEI before the end of 2020, it was considered to be appropriate to provide for an exception to the eight-week period referred to in Article 4 of Protocol No 1 on the role of national Parliaments in the European Union, annexed to the Treaty on European Union, to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and to the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community.

(5) Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 should therefore be amended accordingly.

(6) This Regulation should enter into force as a matter of urgency on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union,

HAVE ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:

#### Article 1

Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is amended as follows:

(1) in Article 91, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following:
   ‘1.   The resources for economic, social and territorial cohesion available for budgetary commitment for the period 2014–2020 shall be EUR 330 105 627 309 in 2011 prices, in accordance with the annual breakdown set out in Annex VI, of which EUR 325 938 694 233 represents the global resources allocated to the ERDF, the ESF and the Cohesion Fund, and EUR 4 166 933 076 represents a specific allocation for the YEI. For the purposes of programming and subsequent inclusion in the budget of the Union, the amount of resources for economic, social and territorial cohesion shall be indexed at 2 % per year.’;

(2) in Article 92, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following:
   ‘5.   Resources for the YEI shall amount to EUR 4 166 933 076, of which EUR 23,7 million constitutes the additional resources for 2020. Those resources shall be complemented by ESF targeted investment in accordance with Article 22 of the ESF Regulation.
   Member States that benefit from the additional resources for the specific allocation for the YEI may request the transfer of up to 50 % of these additional resources to the ESF in order to constitute the corresponding ESF targeted investment as required by Article 22(1) of the ESF Regulation. Such a transfer shall be made to the respective categories of region corresponding to the categorisation of the regions eligible for the increase of the specific allocation for the YEI. Member States shall request the transfer in the request for amendment of the programme in accordance with Article 30(1) of this Regulation. Resources allocated to past years may not be transferred.
   The second subparagraph of this paragraph shall apply to any additional resources for specific allocation for the YEI allocated in 2019 and 2020.’;

(3) Annex VI is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation.

#### Article 2

This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.

Done at Brussels, 15 July 2020.

**For the European Parliament
 The President
 D. M. SASSOLI**

**For the Council
 The President
 J. KLOECKNER**

(1) Opinion of 10 June 2020 (not yet published in the Official Journal).

(2) Position of the European Parliament of 8 July 2020 (not yet published in the Official Journal) and decision of the Council of 14 July 2020.

(3) Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 laying down common provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 ([OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 320](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2013_347_R_TOC)).

(4) [OJ L 57, 27.2.2020, p. 1](http://publications.europa.eu/resource/oj/JOL_2020_057_R_TOC).
